README.md, before:

# node-red-contrib-ha-inovelli-manager
Nodes for easily managing scenes, parameters, and notifications of Inovelli switches paired through various Home Assistant integrations

If you notice any problems please open an issue or a pull request, I'll respond ASAP. Feature requests are always welcome. Thanks!

These nodes should be used in conjunction with the node-red–contrib-home-assistant-websocket plaette, and the output should
be connected to an api-call-service node. This node will automatically fill in the appropriate fields for that node. [Example flows are provided in this repo](https://github.com/ryanjohnsontv/node-red-contrib-ha-inovelli-manager/tree/main/examples).

## Features:
-   Multicast Support
-   Support for Z-Wave JS, ZHA, and Zigbee2MQTT
-   Allows all fields to be controlled by the payload of an incoming message
-   Use color-convert library to accept color names, RGB arrays, hexadecimals, or hue value as input
-   Automatically convert input values to proper format (ie. inputting "2 Hours" converts to 168 for Inovelli math)
-   Support for ALL Inovelli switches
-   Easily clear notifications

# Inovelli Notification Manager

Forked from the exceptionally wonderful https://github.com/pdong/node-contrib-inovelli-status-manager repo.

This node allows you to set color, brightness, and effect type/duration for notifications on Inovelli Red switches. No manual calculations needed!


![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/43426700/114622017-0f7db200-9c73-11eb-8c48-1fd31c3b8141.png)


## How to use:

### Z-Wave Integration

You are able to choose between Z-Wave JS, OpenZWave, or Z-Wave (deprecated) as your integration. This can also be set via msg.payload.zwave (values: zwave_js, ozw, or zwave).

### Entity ID/Node ID

Depending on your Z-Wave integration, you'll have the option to add one ID, or a comma delimited list of IDs. For Z-Wave JS you can set this entity ID in the Home Assistant call-service node, in this node, or send a message with your ID(s) in the msg.payload.entity_id field. For OZW you can set the ID(s) in this node or send a messages with your ID(s) in the msg.payload.node_id field.

### Switch Type

This option lets you specify your switch model, and can also be configured by sending a message with the switch type in the msg.payload.switchtype field. This accepts the integer value of the effect paramter(s), and also the switch model (eg. lzw36, LZW31-sn, 8, dimmer, switch, fan).

### Color

Choose a value between 0 and 361 to determine the hue of your notification. This node will automatically convert that value to Inovelli's hue range (0-255), and it also accepts RGB arrays (255,0,0), color names (Red), or hexadecimals (#ff0000) through msg.payload.color. Range: 0-361.

### Brightness Level

The brightness of your LED Notification, also configurable through msg.payload.brightness. Range: 0-10.

### Duration

The duration of your LED Notification. The list provided in the node are some generic values, however you can send several format through msg.payload.duration to be more exact (eg. 2 hours, 4 days, 47 seconds). Range: 1-255.

### Effect Type

Based on your switch choice, choose between Off, Solid, Chase, Fast Blink, Slow Blink, or Pulse. Also configurable through msg.payload.effect.

### Clear Notification

A checkbox to toggle clearing the the current LED Notification, when checked this will clear the current notification for your specified switch(es). Also configurable by setting msg.payload.clear to a boolean value of true.

### Use Multicast

A checkbox to toggle the use of multicast, or sending the same value to multiple nodes simultaneously. Requires additional Z-Wave JS configuration. Also configurable by setting msg.payload.multicast to a boolean value of true.


# Inovelli LED Manager

This node allows you to set the color and brightness of the LED strip (not for notifications) on Inovelli Black and Red switches without looking up values manually.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/43426700/114769932-78772f80-9d30-11eb-86be-106dc2de4383.png)

## How to use:

### Z-Wave Integration

You are able to choose between Z-Wave JS, OpenZWave, or Z-Wave (deprecated) as your integration. This can also be set via msg.payload.zwave (values: zwave_js, ozw, or zwave).

### Entity ID/Node ID

Depending on your Z-Wave integration, you'll have the option to add one ID, or a comma delimited list of IDs. For Z-Wave JS you can set this entity ID in the Home Assistant call-service node, in this node, or send a message with your ID(s) in the msg.payload.entity_id field. For OZW you can set the ID(s) in this node or send a messages with your ID(s) in the msg.payload.node_id field.

### Switch Type

This option lets you specify your switch model, and can also be configured by sending a message with the switch type in the msg.payload.switchtype field. This accepts the integer value of the effect paramter(s), and also the switch model (eg. lzw36, LZW31-sn, 8, dimmer, switch, fan).

### Color

Choose a value between 0 and 361 to determine the hue of your notification. This node will automatically convert that value to Inovelli's hue range (0-255), and it also accepts RGB arrays (255,0,0), color names (Red), or hexadecimals (#ff0000). Can be set through msg.payload.color. Range: 0-361.

### Brightness Level (When On)

The brightness of your LED bar when the relay is on. Also configurable through msg.payload.brightness. Range: 0-10.

### Brightness Level (When Off)

The brightness of your LED bar when the relay is off. Also configurable through msg.payload.brightnessOff. Range: 0-10.

### Fan Color

Choose a value between 0 and 361 to determine the hue of your notification. This node will automatically convert that value to Inovelli's hue range (0-255), and it also accepts RGB arrays (255,0,0), color names (Red), or hexadecimals (#ff0000). Can be set through msg.payload.fanColor. Range: 0-361.

### Fan Brightness Level (When On)

The brightness of your fan LED bar when the fan relay is on. Also configurable through msg.payload.fanBrightness (or msg.payload.fanBrightness for LZW-36). Range: 0-10.

### Fan Brightness Level (When Off)

The brightness of your fan LED bar when the fan relay is off. Also configurable through msg.payload.fanBrightnessOff (or msg.payload.fanBrightnessOff for LZW-36). Range: 0-10.

### Use Multicast

A checkbox to toggle the use of multicast, or sending the same value to multiple nodes simultaneously. Requires additional Z-Wave JS configuration. Also configurable by setting msg.payload.multicast to a boolean value of true.


# Inovelli Scene Manager

This node interepts scene data sent by multi-clicking on a Red series switch. Connect to a Home Assistant events-all node, automatically adds the appropriate number of outputs for triggering scenes.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/43426700/114770466-1965ea80-9d31-11eb-92f7-8fec410095c1.png)

## How to use:

### Home Assistant Integration

You are able to choose between Z-Wave JS, Open ZWave (deprecated), ZHA, or Zigbee2MQTT as your integration.

### Node ID

The Node ID of the switch being used for scene control.

### Switch Type

This option lets you specify your switch model (LZW30-SN, LZW31-SN, LZW36, and LZW45).

### Passthrough

Enable to process all scene messages used by your Home Assistant integration. Recommended ONLY for those with a Z-Wave network made of the same type of switch.

Commit message:

Add scene support for 2-1 Red switch

README.md, after:

# node-red-contrib-ha-inovelli-manager
Nodes for easily managing scenes, parameters, and notifications of Inovelli switches paired through various Home Assistant integrations

If you notice any problems please open an issue or a pull request, I'll respond ASAP. Feature requests are always welcome. Thanks!

These nodes should be used in conjunction with the node-red–contrib-home-assistant-websocket plaette, and the output should
be connected to an api-call-service node. This node will automatically fill in the appropriate fields for that node. [Example flows are provided in this repo](https://github.com/ryanjohnsontv/node-red-contrib-ha-inovelli-manager/tree/main/examples).

## Features:
-   Multicast Support
-   Support for Z-Wave JS, ZHA, and Zigbee2MQTT
-   Allows all fields to be controlled by the payload of an incoming message
-   Use color-convert library to accept color names, RGB arrays, hexadecimals, or hue value as input
-   Automatically convert input values to proper format (ie. inputting "2 Hours" converts to 168 for Inovelli math)
-   Support for ALL Inovelli switches
-   Easily clear notifications

# Inovelli Notification Manager

Forked from the exceptionally wonderful https://github.com/pdong/node-contrib-inovelli-status-manager repo.

This node allows you to set color, brightness, and effect type/duration for notifications on Inovelli Red switches. No manual calculations needed!


![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/43426700/114622017-0f7db200-9c73-11eb-8c48-1fd31c3b8141.png)


## How to use:

### Z-Wave Integration

You are able to choose between Z-Wave JS, OpenZWave, or Z-Wave (deprecated) as your integration. This can also be set via msg.payload.zwave (values: zwave_js, ozw, or zwave).

### Entity ID/Node ID

Depending on your Z-Wave integration, you'll have the option to add one ID, or a comma delimited list of IDs. For Z-Wave JS you can set this entity ID in the Home Assistant call-service node, in this node, or send a message with your ID(s) in the msg.payload.entity_id field. For OZW you can set the ID(s) in this node or send a messages with your ID(s) in the msg.payload.node_id field.

### Switch Type

This option lets you specify your switch model, and can also be configured by sending a message with the switch type in the msg.payload.switchtype field. This accepts the integer value of the effect paramter(s), and also the switch model (eg. lzw36, LZW31-sn, 8, dimmer, switch, fan).

### Color

Choose a value between 0 and 361 to determine the hue of your notification. This node will automatically convert that value to Inovelli's hue range (0-255), and it also accepts RGB arrays (255,0,0), color names (Red), or hexadecimals (#ff0000) through msg.payload.color. Range: 0-361.

### Brightness Level

The brightness of your LED Notification, also configurable through msg.payload.brightness. Range: 0-10.

### Duration

The duration of your LED Notification. The list provided in the node are some generic values, however you can send several format through msg.payload.duration to be more exact (eg. 2 hours, 4 days, 47 seconds). Range: 1-255.

### Effect Type

Based on your switch choice, choose between Off, Solid, Chase, Fast Blink, Slow Blink, or Pulse. Also configurable through msg.payload.effect.

### Clear Notification

A checkbox to toggle clearing the the current LED Notification, when checked this will clear the current notification for your specified switch(es). Also configurable by setting msg.payload.clear to a boolean value of true.

### Use Multicast

A checkbox to toggle the use of multicast, or sending the same value to multiple nodes simultaneously. Requires additional Z-Wave JS configuration. Also configurable by setting msg.payload.multicast to a boolean value of true.


# Inovelli LED Manager

This node allows you to set the color and brightness of the LED strip (not for notifications) on Inovelli Black and Red switches without looking up values manually.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/43426700/114769932-78772f80-9d30-11eb-86be-106dc2de4383.png)

## How to use:

### Z-Wave Integration

You are able to choose between Z-Wave JS, OpenZWave, or Z-Wave (deprecated) as your integration. This can also be set via msg.payload.zwave (values: zwave_js, ozw, or zwave).

### Entity ID/Node ID

Depending on your Z-Wave integration, you'll have the option to add one ID, or a comma delimited list of IDs. For Z-Wave JS you can set this entity ID in the Home Assistant call-service node, in this node, or send a message with your ID(s) in the msg.payload.entity_id field. For OZW you can set the ID(s) in this node or send a messages with your ID(s) in the msg.payload.node_id field.

### Switch Type

This option lets you specify your switch model, and can also be configured by sending a message with the switch type in the msg.payload.switchtype field. This accepts the integer value of the effect paramter(s), and also the switch model (eg. lzw36, LZW31-sn, 8, dimmer, switch, fan).

### Color

Choose a value between 0 and 361 to determine the hue of your notification. This node will automatically convert that value to Inovelli's hue range (0-255), and it also accepts RGB arrays (255,0,0), color names (Red), or hexadecimals (#ff0000). Can be set through msg.payload.color. Range: 0-361.

### Brightness Level (When On)

The brightness of your LED bar when the relay is on. Also configurable through msg.payload.brightness. Range: 0-10.

### Brightness Level (When Off)

The brightness of your LED bar when the relay is off. Also configurable through msg.payload.brightnessOff. Range: 0-10.

### Fan Color

Choose a value between 0 and 361 to determine the hue of your notification. This node will automatically convert that value to Inovelli's hue range (0-255), and it also accepts RGB arrays (255,0,0), color names (Red), or hexadecimals (#ff0000). Can be set through msg.payload.fanColor. Range: 0-361.

### Fan Brightness Level (When On)

The brightness of your fan LED bar when the fan relay is on. Also configurable through msg.payload.fanBrightness (or msg.payload.fanBrightness for LZW-36). Range: 0-10.

### Fan Brightness Level (When Off)

The brightness of your fan LED bar when the fan relay is off. Also configurable through msg.payload.fanBrightnessOff (or msg.payload.fanBrightnessOff for LZW-36). Range: 0-10.

### Use Multicast

A checkbox to toggle the use of multicast, or sending the same value to multiple nodes simultaneously. Requires additional Z-Wave JS configuration. Also configurable by setting msg.payload.multicast to a boolean value of true.


# Inovelli Scene Manager

This node interepts scene data sent by multi-clicking on a Red series switch. Connect to a Home Assistant events-all node, automatically adds the appropriate number of outputs for triggering scenes.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/43426700/114770466-1965ea80-9d31-11eb-92f7-8fec410095c1.png)

## How to use:

### Home Assistant Integration

You are able to choose between Z-Wave JS, Open ZWave (deprecated), ZHA, or Zigbee2MQTT as your integration.

### Node/Device ID(s)

Node ID or Device ID (or a comma-delimited list of IDs) of the Inovelli switch(es) you are managing. Leaving empty will pass through ALL event messages.

### Switch Type

This option lets you specify your switch model (LZW30-SN, LZW31-SN, LZW36, and LZW45).
